Add gradle custom shortcut article (#16)
pgreze/pgreze.com: content/posts/2021-01-08-gradle-custom-shortcut.md

---
title: "Stop wasting your Android gradle daemons"
date: 2021-01-08T16:48:02+09:00
draft: false
---

> As you probably noticed, switch between your dear Android Studio and your terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you've probably noticed, the switch between your dear Android Studio and your terminal
```

is not without some latency / weird error messages about some Gradle daemons that could not be reused.

{{< image src="/assets/2021-01-08-gradle-custom-shortcut/not-reused.png" position="center" >}}

> The reason is because Android Studio is coming by default with its own JDK installation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason is because Android Studio has its own default JDK installation,
```

> allowing to use Android Studio without having to install Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which lets you use Android Studio without installing Java
```

> or to be sure all your team is using the same compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or be sure all of your team is using the same compiler.
```

> That's convenient for sure, but it's not something your Gradle project is aware and so,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's convenient for sure, but it's not something your Gradle project is aware of and so,
```

if you're trying to use Gradle without Android Studio's help,
you will probably fallback to your default system JDK,
which is not the one that Android Studio is using.

> It can affects you in 2 ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can affect you in 2 ways:
```

> It can affect you in 2 ways:
> 
> 1. not re-using the existing Gradle daemon (!!)
> 1. not re-using your build cache (if your default JDK has a different version than the AS's one)

Author: Here is an alternative text about why you should care about your Gradle daemons:

```suggestion

But why should you care? The [Gradle daemon](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html#sec:why_the_daemon) is one of the key features in order to speed up your builds and so, not using it efficiently can damage your day to day productivity.
```

Reviewer: the key feature -> the key features

> 1. not re-using your build cache (if your default JDK has a different version than the AS's one)

Reviewer: Not an English comment but this is the cause rather than the effect 😅Instead I'd like to know what is the effect of not re-using the existing gradle daemon. Does it make things slower? Use extra resources? Compile differently? The current statement doesn't really mean anything to me (or other people not familiar with the gradle process).

Author: I guess I should replace this fake list by a block just explaining that the Gradle daemon is good for you, and redirect to https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html#sec:why_the_daemon to know more

Author: @EmmaKiwi please take a look at https://github.com/pgreze/blog/pull/16/files#r554508357 🙏

Let's see quickly how to fix this issue, either in your terminal

> or by leveraging an Android Studio's hidden gem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or by leveraging one of Android Studio's hidden gems.
```

# Use the same JDK in your terminal

This fix is easy: just set your JAVA_HOME to the one bundled with the Android Studio you're using.

```bash
# Consider a default OSX installation
export ANDROID_STUDIO_HOME="/Applications/Android Studio"

# Override your JDK path
export JAVA_HOME="$ANDROID_STUDIO_HOME/Contents/jre/jdk/Contents/Home"

# Now you can use Gradle without wasting your daemon.
# Better adopt https://github.com/gdubw/gdub at the same time.
gw help
```

But if you're using the awesome [Jetbrains Toolbox](https://www.jetbrains.com/toolbox-app/)
to manage multiple installations, things will be a little more complicated because all IDEs
are stored in **~/Library/Application Support/JetBrains/Toolbox/apps**.
I wrote a [script detecting all Android Studio installations][script] but clearly,
it's not what we can define as an easy solution.

[script]: https://github.com/pgreze/dotfiles/blob/main/bin/aidea.py

> That's why ideally stay in Android Studio would be more convenient,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why ideally staying in Android Studio would be more convenient,
```

so let's see what's available in order to run arbitrary commands.

> # Android Studio hidden gem: run arbitrary Gradle commands from your IDE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Android Studio's hidden gem: running arbitrary Gradle commands from your IDE
```

> Android Studio is providing a Gradle helper, allowing to discover and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Android Studio provides a Gradle helper, which can be used to discover and
```

run commands directly from your IDE:

{{< image src="/assets/2021-01-08-gradle-custom-shortcut/gradle-helper.jpg" position="center" style="width: 500px" >}}

It's a convenient tool for beginners, but if you already know which command you're looking for,
you need to find it in one of these folders, and it requires several clicks before finding your command,

> if its not lost in the middle of 1000 other ones...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if it's not lost in the middle of 1000 other ones...
```

> Luckily there's a way to **run any command, just by entering its name, only with your keyboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luckily there's a way to **run any command, just by entering its name, using only your keyboard**.
```

> It's relying on the IntelliJ's ability to assign custom shortcut to any available action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It relies on IntelliJ's ability to assign a custom shortcut to any available action.
```

> First use Command + Shift + A (on OSX) to search the **Execute Gradle Task** action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First use Command + Shift + A (on OSX) to search for the **Execute Gradle Task** action:
```

{{< image src="/assets/2021-01-08-gradle-custom-shortcut/search-gradle-run.png" position="center" style="width: 500px" >}}

Now press ⌥ + enter (on OSX) to assign your own custom shortcut (I chose ⌥ + G).

{{< image src="/assets/2021-01-08-gradle-custom-shortcut/assign-custom-shortcut.png" position="center" style="width: 500px" >}}

> And now try your new shortcut allowing to execute any command,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now try your new shortcut to execute any command,
```

with the option to run it for all modules or the one you prefer,

> and without leaving Android Studio and override your terminal 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and without leaving Android Studio and overriding your terminal 🙌
```
